MAYA: We speak, infrequently.
At length, with interruptions.
Keep it light, check your impulse,
don’t share too much or too deeply.
Say I love you as much as and as many times as you can.
Cry quietly. Silence is key.
Lean into your joy.
Shit, find your joy.
Share what made you smile today.
Harness your desire to scream and climb through the phone.
Breathe deeply, again.
Again. Again.
Dare to dream of the day when you won’t be interrupted in your conversation.
When keeping it real over keeping it light is safe again.
I want to hold you, your hug tucked into my heart chakra.
Won’t you just come back to me already?
I’m done. I’ve done this for too long alone.
Holding myself at night,
my shoulders ache from hugging myself, every night.
I told the story of the time I got locked in my bedroom
in movement class the other day.
It brought me such joy to share you and Granny Ma in a neutral space.
I’m missing your non-judgement,
opinions that span the encyclopedia of topics.
You keep me laughing, even in those tiny row seats,
in the pen that’s supposed to be a visiting room.
I am in stitches from your candour and shameless truth telling.
You taught me not to give a fuck
but always give and get respect.
The cute fakeness does nothing to make us…
or move us forward in career or living truthful, fruitful lives.
Back in the visiting room, families sit,
packed on top of each other like cattle.
Chittering and chattering quietly,
seeking privacy, smiling silently,
letting the unspoken linger in the physical space.
The space between. Rare air.
Heartbeats are able to sink up when siting this close.
I wish I could hug you,
but I don’t want to be yelled at by the overseers again.
I don’t want to be the reason they treat you bad
– read: beat you up.
When I leave, I don’t want to leave here without your hand in mine.
Together. Together.
Together. Together, together, together…
My best self is saving others, but I can’t even save myself.
Freedom? Mobility?
Affordance? Humanity?
Individuality?
Never did extend to me.
I write you never.
Fearful I’ll error in my transparency.
You love me. You’re not safe.
That… didn’t hurt.
I pulled apart and reshaped.
You could be free any day and that is eating at me.
I want to come home.
I want to take care of you.
I want to use the skill I’ve acquired
to teach you how to live in this world anew.
I, I… I… I… have to press on.
My life is dedicated to so many
and I am not going stop till I reach my goal, but…
I wanna see you there.
The last graduation.
First and last.
The last will become first and the first last.
Flat out. Little verge.